Docs for Pruning, Quantization, and SWA (#6041)
PyTorchLightning/pytorch-lightning: docs/source/advanced/pruning_quantization.rst

.. testsetup:: *

    import os
    from pytorch_lightning.trainer.trainer import Trainer
    from pytorch_lightning.core.lightning import LightningModule

.. _pruning_quantization:

########################
Pruning and Quantization
########################

> Pruning and Quantization are tecniques to compress models for deployment, allowing memory and energy reduction without significant accuracy losses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pruning and Quantization are techniques to compress model size for deployment, allowing inference speed up and energy saving without significant accuracy losses.
```

*******
Pruning
*******

> .. warning ::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. warning::

```

     Pruning is in beta and subject to change.

> Pruning is a technique to optimize model memory, hardware, and energy requirements by eliminating some of the model weights. Pruning has been shown to achieve significant efficiency improvements while minimizing the drop in performance. The pruned model is smaller in size, more memory-efficient requires less energy and memory, and is faster to run with minimal accuracy drop.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Pruning is focussing on eliminating some of the model weights to reduce the model size and increase inference performance. Pruning has been shown to achieve significant efficiency improvements while minimizing the drop in model performance (prediction quality).
```
the last sentence was duplicite

> TODO: when is it recomended?

Reviewer: Recommended for cloud endpoint or on edge device or mobile deployment.

> TODO: when is it recomended?

Author: ```suggestion
Pruning your model is recommended for cloud endpoint, on edge device, or mobile deployment.
```

This callback suports multiple pruning functions: pass any `torch.nn.utils.prune <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/nn.html#utilities>`_ function as a string to select which weights to pruned (`random_unstructured <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.nn.utils.prune.random_unstructured.html#torch.nn.utils.prune.random_unstructured>`_, `RandomStructured <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.nn.utils.prune.RandomStructured.html#torch.nn.utils.prune.RandomStructured>`_, etc) or implement your own by subclassing `BasePruningMethod <https://pytorch.org/tutorials/intermediate/pruning_tutorial.html#extending-torch-nn-utils-prune-with-custom-pruning-functions>`_.

TODO: what do you have to set?

You can also set the pruning percentage, perform iterative pruning, apply the `lottery ticket hypothesis <https://arxiv.org/pdf/1803.03635.pdf>`_ and more!

.. code-block:: python

	from pytorch_lightning.callbacks import ModelPruning

	trainer = Trainer(callbacks=[ModelPruning("random_unstructured")])

************
Quantization
************

.. warning ::
     Quantization is in beta and subject to change.

> Model quantization is another performance optimization technique allows speeding up inference and decreasing memory requirements by performing computations and storing tensors at lower bitwidths (such as INT8 or FLOAT16) than floating point precision. Quantization not only reduces the model size, but also speeds up loading since operations on fixpoint are faster than on floating-point. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Model quantization is another performance optimization technique that allows speeding up inference and decreasing memory requirements by performing computations and storing tensors at lower bitwidths (such as INT8 or FLOAT16) than floating-point precision. Moreover smaller models also speed up model loading. 
```

Quantization Aware Training (QAT) mimics the effects of quantization during training: all computations are carried out in floating points while training, simulating the effects of ints, and weights and activations are quantized into lower precision only once training is completed.

> TODO: when is it recomended?

Reviewer: Recommended for cloud endpoint or on edge device or mobile deployment.

> TODO: when is it recomended?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It becomes useful for serving large models on machines with limited memory or in a situation you need to switch among models and each model has to be loaded from the drive.
```

Lightning includes :class:`~pytorch_lightning.callbacks.QuantizationAwareTraining` callback (using PyTorch native quantization, read more `here <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/quantization.html#quantization-aware-training>`_), which allows creating fully quantized models (compatible with torchscript).

To quantize your model, specify TODO(borda).

.. code-block:: python

	from pytorch_lightning.callbacks import QuantizationAwareTraining

	class RegressionModel(LightningModule):

	    def __init__(self):
	        super().__init__()
	        self.layer_0 = nn.Linear(16, 64)
	        self.layer_0a = torch.nn.ReLU()
	        self.layer_1 = nn.Linear(64, 64)
	        self.layer_1a = torch.nn.ReLU()
	        self.layer_end = nn.Linear(64, 1)

			def forward(self, x):
	        x = self.layer_0(x)
	        x = self.layer_0a(x)
	        x = self.layer_1(x)
	        x = self.layer_1a(x)
	        x = self.layer_end(x)
	        return x

	qcb = QuantizationAwareTraining(

> 			# specification of quant estimation quaity
> 			observer_type='histogram',
> 			# specify which layers shall be merged together to increase efficiency
> 			modules_to_fuse=[(f'layer_{i}', f'layer_{i}a') for i in range(2)]
> 			# make the model torchanble
> 			input_compatible=False,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	    # specification of quant estimation quaity
	    observer_type='histogram',
	    # specify which layers shall be merged together to increase efficiency
	    modules_to_fuse=[(f'layer_{i}', f'layer_{i}a') for i in range(2)]
	    # make the model torchanble
	    input_compatible=False,
```

	)

	trainer = Trainer(callbacks=[qcb])
	qmodel = RegressionModel()
	trainer.fit(qmodel, ...)

	batch = iter(my_dataloader()).next()
	qmodel(qmodel.quant(batch[0]))

	tsmodel = qmodel.to_torchscript()
	tsmodel(tsmodel.quant(batch[0]))

You can also set `input_compatible=True` to make your model compatible with all original input/outputs, in such case the model is wrapped in a shell with entry/exit layers.

> TODO(borda): add code example

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: python

        batch = iter(my_dataloader()).next()
	qmodel(batch[0])
```

.. testsetup:: *

    import os
    from pytorch_lightning.trainer.trainer import Trainer
    from pytorch_lightning.core.lightning import LightningModule

.. _pruning_quantization:

########################
Pruning and Quantization
########################

Pruning and Quantization are techniques to compress model size for deployment, allowing inference speed up and energy saving without significant accuracy losses.

*******
Pruning
*******

.. warning::

     Pruning is in beta and subject to change.

Pruning is focussing on eliminating some of the model weights to reduce the model size and increase inference performance. Pruning has been shown to achieve significant efficiency improvements while minimizing the drop in model performance (prediction quality).

> Pruning your model is recommended for cloud endpoint, on edge device, or mobile deployment.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Pruning your model is recommended for cloud endpoints, deploying models on edge devices, or mobile inference (among others).
```

> To enable pruning during training in Lightning, simply pass in the :class:`~pytorch_lightning.callbacks.ModelPruning` callback to the Lighting Trainer (using native PyTorch pruning implementation under the hood).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To enable pruning during training in Lightning, simply pass in the :class:`~pytorch_lightning.callbacks.ModelPruning` callback to the Lightning Trainer. This callback uses PyTorch's native pruning implementation under the hood.
```

> This callback suports multiple pruning functions: pass any `torch.nn.utils.prune <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/nn.html#utilities>`_ function as a string to select which weights to pruned (`random_unstructured <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.nn.utils.prune.random_unstructured.html#torch.nn.utils.prune.random_unstructured>`_, `RandomStructured <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.nn.utils.prune.RandomStructured.html#torch.nn.utils.prune.RandomStructured>`_, etc) or implement your own by subclassing `BasePruningMethod <https://pytorch.org/tutorials/intermediate/pruning_tutorial.html#extending-torch-nn-utils-prune-with-custom-pruning-functions>`_.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This callback supports multiple pruning functions: pass any `torch.nn.utils.prune <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/nn.html#utilities>`_ function as a string to select which weights to prune (`random_unstructured <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.nn.utils.prune.random_unstructured.html#torch.nn.utils.prune.random_unstructured>`_, `RandomStructured <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.nn.utils.prune.RandomStructured.html#torch.nn.utils.prune.RandomStructured>`_, etc) or implement your own by subclassing `BasePruningMethod <https://pytorch.org/tutorials/intermediate/pruning_tutorial.html#extending-torch-nn-utils-prune-with-custom-pruning-functions>`_.
```

> TODO: what do you have to set?

Reviewer: The user would have to provide the `amount` to be pruned. The amount can be a float between 0 and 1 or a function which takes the current_epoch and return a float. In the later case, the sum of all returned amount should be smaller than 1. One can return 0 or None to skip pruning for a given epoch.

Reviewer 3: Should we really specify what to set here? It's all in the pruning class docs.

Reviewer: No, you are right.

You can also set the pruning percentage, perform iterative pruning, apply the `lottery ticket hypothesis <https://arxiv.org/pdf/1803.03635.pdf>`_ and more!

> .. code-block:: python
> 
> 
> 	from pytorch_lightning.callbacks import ModelPruning
> 
> 	trainer = Trainer(callbacks=[ModelPruning("random_unstructured")])
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: python

 	from pytorch_lightning.callbacks import ModelPruning

    def compute_amount(epoch):
        if epoch == 10:
            return 0.5

        elif epoch == 50:
            return 0.25

        elif 75 < epoch < 99 :
            return 0.01         

    trainer = Trainer(callbacks=[ModelPruning("l1_unstructured", amount=compute_amount)])

```

.. testsetup:: *

    import os
    from pytorch_lightning.trainer.trainer import Trainer
    from pytorch_lightning.core.lightning import LightningModule

.. _pruning_quantization:

########################
Pruning and Quantization
########################

Pruning and Quantization are techniques to compress model size for deployment, allowing inference speed up and energy saving without significant accuracy losses.

*******
Pruning
*******

.. warning::

     Pruning is in beta and subject to change.

> Pruning is a technique which focuses on eliminating some of the model weights to reduce the model size and decrease inference requirements. Pruning has been shown to achieve significant efficiency improvements while minimizing the drop in model performance (prediction quality).
> 
> Pruning your model is recommended for cloud endpoints, deploying models on edge devices, or mobile inference (among others).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Pruning is a technique which focuses on eliminating some of the model weights to reduce the model size and decrease inference requirements.

Pruning has been shown to achieve significant efficiency improvements while minimizing the drop in model performance (prediction quality). Model pruning is recommended for cloud endpoints, deploying models on edge devices, or mobile inference (among others).
```

TODO: what do you have to set?

You can also set the pruning percentage, perform iterative pruning, apply the `lottery ticket hypothesis <https://arxiv.org/pdf/1803.03635.pdf>`_ and more!

.. code-block:: python

    from pytorch_lightning.callbacks import ModelPruning

    def compute_amount(epoch):
        if epoch == 10:
            return 0.5

        elif epoch == 50:
            return 0.25

        elif 75 < epoch < 99 :
            return 0.01         

    trainer = Trainer(callbacks=[ModelPruning("l1_unstructured", amount=compute_amount)])

************
Quantization
************

.. warning ::
     Quantization is in beta and subject to change.

> Model quantization is another performance optimization technique that allows speeding up inference and decreasing memory requirements by performing computations and storing tensors at lower bitwidths (such as INT8 or FLOAT16) than floating-point precision. Moreover smaller models also speed up model loading. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Model quantization is another performance optimization technique that allows speeding up inference and decreasing memory requirements by performing computations and storing tensors at lower bitwidths (such as INT8 or FLOAT16) than floating-point precision. Moreover, smaller models also speed up model loading. 
```

Reviewer 3: @Borda can you elaborate on "speed up model loading"?

> Quantization Aware Training (QAT) mimics the effects of quantization during training: all computations are carried out in floating points while training, simulating the effects of ints, and weights and activations are quantized into lower precision only once training is completed.

Reviewer 3: @Borda can you elaborate on "simulating the effects of ints"?

Reviewer 2: not sure, I guess this does not come from me... but this is what PT say:
```
Quantization Aware Training models the effects of quantization during training allowing for higher accuracy compared to other quantization methods. During training, all calculations are done in floating point, with fake_quant modules modeling the effects of quantization by clamping and rounding to simulate the effects of INT8. After model conversion, weights and activations are quantized, and activations are fused into the preceding layer where possible. It is commonly used with CNNs and yields a higher accuracy compared to static quantization. Quantization Aware Training is also known as QAT.
```

Reviewer 2: see an update in https://github.com/PyTorchLightning/pytorch-lightning/pull/6041/files#r578283850

> Quantization is useful when serving large models on machines with limited memory or when there's a need to switch between models where each model has to be loaded from the drive.

Reviewer 3: Can you add an example where you would "need to switch between models"?

Reviewer 2: I would say just load different model pending on the task, so if input is 2x8 then load classification otherwise regression model...

Reviewer 2: any other suggestion @tchaton

> Lightning includes :class:`~pytorch_lightning.callbacks.QuantizationAwareTraining` callback (using PyTorch native quantization, read more `here <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/quantization.html#quantization-aware-training>`_), which allows creating fully quantized models (compatible with torchscript).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Lightning includes :class:`~pytorch_lightning.callbacks.QuantizationAwareTraining` callback (using PyTorch's native quantization, read more `here <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/quantization.html#quantization-aware-training>`__), which allows creating fully quantized models (compatible with torchscript).
```

> To quantize your model, specify TODO(borda).

Reviewer 3: @Borda

Reviewer 2: not sure what shall be here, you just use callback...

.. code-block:: python

	from pytorch_lightning.callbacks import QuantizationAwareTraining

	class RegressionModel(LightningModule):

	    def __init__(self):
	        super().__init__()
	        self.layer_0 = nn.Linear(16, 64)
	        self.layer_0a = torch.nn.ReLU()
	        self.layer_1 = nn.Linear(64, 64)
	        self.layer_1a = torch.nn.ReLU()
	        self.layer_end = nn.Linear(64, 1)

			def forward(self, x):
	        x = self.layer_0(x)
	        x = self.layer_0a(x)
	        x = self.layer_1(x)
	        x = self.layer_1a(x)
	        x = self.layer_end(x)
	        return x

	qcb = QuantizationAwareTraining(

> 	    # specification of quant estimation quaity

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
	    # specification of quant estimation quality
```

	    observer_type='histogram',
	    # specify which layers shall be merged together to increase efficiency
	    modules_to_fuse=[(f'layer_{i}', f'layer_{i}a') for i in range(2)]

> 	    # make the model torchanble

Reviewer 3: torchanble?

.. code-block:: python

    from pytorch_lightning.callbacks import ModelPruning

    # set the amount to be the fraction of parameters to prune
    trainer = Trainer(callbacks=[ModelPruning("l1_unstructured", amount=0.5)])

You can also perform iterative pruning, apply the `lottery ticket hypothesis <https://arxiv.org/pdf/1803.03635.pdf>`_ and more!

.. code-block:: python

    def compute_amount(epoch):
        # the sum of all returned values need to be smaller than 1
        if epoch == 10:
            return 0.5

        elif epoch == 50:
            return 0.25

       elif 75 < epoch < 99 :
            return 0.01

    # the amount can be also be a callable
    trainer = Trainer(callbacks=[ModelPruning("l1_unstructured", amount=compute_amount)])

************
Quantization
************

.. warning ::
     Quantization is in beta and subject to change.

Model quantization is another performance optimization technique that allows speeding up inference and decreasing memory requirements by performing computations and storing tensors at lower bitwidths (such as INT8 or FLOAT16) than floating-point precision. Moreover, smaller models also speed up model loading.

> Quantization Aware Training (QAT) mimics the effects of quantization during training: all computations are carried out in floating points while training, simulating the effects of ints, and weights and activations are quantized into lower precision only once training is completed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Quantization Aware Training (QAT) mimics the effects of quantization during training: all computations are carried out in floating points while training, fake_quant simulats the effects of ints, and weights and activations are quantized into lower precision only once training is completed.
```

> Quantization is useful when serving large models on machines with limited memory or when there's a need to switch between models where each model has to be loaded from the drive.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Quantization is useful when it is required to serve large models on machines with limited memory, or when there's a need to switch between models and reducing the IO time is important i.e monolingual speech recognition models across multiple languages.
```

> Quantization is useful when it is required to serve large models on machines with limited memory, or when there's a need to switch between models and reducing the IO time is important i.e monolingual speech recognition models across multiple languages.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Quantization is useful when it is required to serve large models on machines with limited memory, or when there's a need to switch between models and reducing the IO time is important i.e switching between monolingual speech recognition models across multiple languages.
```

You can also set the pruning percentage, perform iterative pruning, apply the `lottery ticket hypothesis <https://arxiv.org/pdf/1803.03635.pdf>`_ and more!

.. code-block:: python

    from pytorch_lightning.callbacks import ModelPruning

    # the amount can be a float between 0 and 1
    trainer = Trainer(callbacks=[ModelPruning("l1_unstructured", amount=0.5)])

    # or

    def compute_amount(epoch):
        # the sum of all returned values need to be smaller than 1
        if epoch == 10:
            return 0.5

        elif epoch == 50:
            return 0.25

       elif 75 < epoch < 99 :
            return 0.01

    # the amount can be also be a callable
    trainer = Trainer(callbacks=[ModelPruning("l1_unstructured", amount=compute_amount)])

************
Quantization
************

.. warning ::
     Quantization is in beta and subject to change.

> Model quantization is another performance optimization technique that allows speeding up inference and decreasing memory requirements by performing computations and storing tensors at lower bitwidths (such as INT8 or FLOAT16) than floating-point precision. Moreover smaller models also speed up model loading.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Model quantization is another performance optimization technique that allows speeding up inference and decreasing memory requirements by performing computations and storing tensors at lower bitwidths (such as INT8 or FLOAT16) than floating-point precision. Moreover, smaller models also speed up model loading.
```
